ALDERWICK — PORTABLE BROWSER EDITION

Your settlement starts here.

This download contains the actual compiled Alderwick game. It runs locally
in your desktop browser. It is not a native app or an installer.

REQUIREMENTS
- A current desktop Chrome, Edge, Firefox or Safari with WebGL 2 enabled.
- Python 3.8+ or Node.js 18+ installed and available in your terminal.
- Internet is not required to play after downloading and extracting the ZIP.
  Installing Python or Node initially requires a separate download.

START PLAYING
1. Extract the entire ZIP. Do not launch from inside the compressed archive.
2. macOS: double-click Play-Alderwick.command.
   Windows: double-click Play-Alderwick.cmd.
   Linux: run sh Play-Alderwick.sh in the extracted folder.
3. Open http://127.0.0.1:4186/ if the browser does not open automatically.
4. Keep the terminal window open while playing. Stop with Ctrl+C afterward.

If macOS blocks the launcher, open Terminal in the extracted folder and run:
  sh Play-Alderwick.command
You can also launch directly with:
  python3 launch.py
or:
  node launch.mjs

The small launcher serves files only on your computer's loopback address.
It does not send the game, saves or your files to another server.

SAVES
Your browser stores settlements using IndexedDB at http://127.0.0.1:4186/.
Always use that exact address and the same browser/profile to find your saves.
Saves from the hosted game do not transfer automatically. Export your save
from the hosted game's Saves menu, then import it in this local edition.
Use Save/Export before changing browsers, deleting browser data, or upgrading.
Private browsing may discard saves when the window closes.

CONTROLS
Start with New Settlement, customize your expedition, then Set sail.
Use the in-game tutorial and Settings for controls and graphics options.
Escape opens the pause menu. The game includes configurable survival threats.

TROUBLESHOOTING
- A blank or graphics error screen: enable hardware acceleration/WebGL, update
  your browser and graphics drivers, then reopen the local address.
- Port already in use: close the other Alderwick launcher and try again.
- Do not open game/index.html directly: module loading needs the local server.
- Downloaded-launcher file permissions may depend on your OS. Terminal commands
  above work without changing executable permissions.

CREDITS
Created by Chase Johnston. Original game assets and code are copyright 2026
Chase Johnston; included third-party software and assets retain their licenses.
See game/credits/ and the in-game Credits screen for attribution.
